.NET 9 migration guidance edit suggestions for MapStaticAssets (#34032)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/migration/80-90.md

## Replace `UseStaticFiles` with `MapStaticAssets`

Optimize the handling of static files in your web apps by replacing <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticFileExtensions.UseStaticFiles%2A> with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticAssetsEndpointRouteBuilderExtensions.MapStaticAssets%2A> in the app's `Program` file:
  
```diff
- app.UseStaticFiles();
+ app.MapStaticAssets();
```

> In MVC & Razor Pages apps you additionally need to chain a call to `.WithStaticAssets` after `MapRazorPages` or `MapControllerRoute` in `Program.cs`. For an example, see the <xref:fundamentals/static-files?view=aspnetcore-9.0&preserve-view=true>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In MVC & Razor Pages apps you additionally need to chain a call to `.WithStaticAssets` after `MapRazorPages` or `MapControllerRoute` in `Program.cs`. For an example, see the <xref:fundamentals/static-files?view=aspnetcore-9.0&preserve-view=true>. 
```

> ASP.NET Core will automatically fingerprint and precompress your static files at build and publish time and then `MapStaticAssets` will surface the optimized files as endpoints using endpoint routing with appropriate caching headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ASP.NET Core automatically fingerprints and precompresses your static files at build and publish time, and then <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.StaticAssetsEndpointRouteBuilderExtensions.MapStaticAssets%2A> surfaces the optimized files as endpoints using endpoint routing with appropriate caching headers.
```

To resolve the fingerprinted file names from your app:

* In Blazor apps, use the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.ComponentBase.Assets?displayProperty=nameWithType> property. Update explicit references to static assets in Razor component files (`.razor`) to use `@Assets["{ASSET PATH}"]`, where the `{ASSET PATH}` placeholder is the path to the asset. Note that this should ***NOT*** be done for the Blazor framework scripts (`blazor.*.js`). In the following example, Bootstrap, the Blazor project template app stylesheet (`app.css`), and the [CSS isolation stylesheet](xref:blazor/components/css-isolation) (based on an app's namespace of `BlazorSample`) are linked in a root component, typically the `App` component (`Components/App.razor`):

    ```razor
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="@Assets["bootstrap/bootstrap.min.css"]" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="@Assets["app.css"]" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="@Assets["BlazorSample.styles.css"]" />
    ```
    
* In MVC & Razor Pages apps, the script and link tag helpers will automatically resolve the fingerprinted file names.

> To resolve the fingerprinted file names when importing JavaScript modules, add a generated [import map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type/importmap):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve the fingerprinted file names when importing JavaScript modules, add a generated [import map](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type/importmap):
```

* In Blazor apps, add the (<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.ImportMap>) component to the `<head>` content of the app's root component, typically in the `App` component (`App.razor`):

   ```razor
   <ImportMap />
   ```

> * In MVC & Razor pages apps, add `<script type="importmap"></script>` to the head of the main layout file, which will be updated by the import map tag helper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In MVC & Razor pages apps, add `<script type="importmap"></script>` to the head of the main layout file, which is updated by the Import Map Tag Helper.
```

> For more information, see <xref:blazor/fundamentals/static-files>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the following resources:

* <xref:aspnetcore-9.0#static-asset-delivery-optimization>
* <xref:blazor/fundamentals/static-files>.
```

    ```razor
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="@Assets["bootstrap/bootstrap.min.css"]" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="@Assets["app.css"]" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="@Assets["BlazorSample.styles.css"]" />
    ```
    
* In MVC & Razor Pages apps, the script and link tag helpers will automatically resolve the fingerprinted file names.

To resolve the fingerprinted file names when importing JavaScript modules, add a generated [import map](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type/importmap):

* In Blazor apps, add the (<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.ImportMap>) component to the `<head>` content of the app's root component, typically in the `App` component (`App.razor`):

   ```razor
   <ImportMap />
   ```

* In MVC & Razor pages apps, add `<script type="importmap"></script>` to the head of the main layout file, which is updated by the Import Map Tag Helper.
 
For more information, see the following resources:

> * <xref:aspnetcore-9.0#static-asset-delivery-optimization>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <xref:aspnetcore-9#static-asset-delivery-optimization>
```
